Principles of Material Magic
You can see that in history, material magic has been a big failure – Alchemists, they even often
avoid mentioning this today, and pretend that this science has only been about transmuting the
spirit. But there is a deep underlying principle behind this failure – it has been done in the name of
witchcraft and magic, not spirituality and miracles. Magic is a common term, which can mean both
black or white; so is the witchcraft – in this text, I use witchcraft in negative sense.

Witchcraft or Miracles
In witchcraft, you want to manipulate, control, gain power, or gain money. You measure other’s
success based on those positive qualities.
In reality, you cannot only work for positive qualities – such as money or power –, but you must
open up your mind to negative experiences, and also to too positive experiences.
There are three principles – I call them sine, cone and cosine:
•

Sine: you open up your mind to negative experience. This brings negative to your mind as
you would hurt the world and others with you ambitious goals. Also, the goals themselves,
without meditating on their negative aspects, are childish and which first looks as bless and
success, can seem failure once you meditate on it more deeply; you might start to feel
emptiness and meaninglessness – feeling empty and meaningless are negative forces to give
meaning and true quality to your life; feeling worthless is a negative quality to give you real
value. Negative forces work by undoing themselves; and at first, you might be able to ignore
them, but charged with material qualities such as evolution and logical failure, they come
back and work externally – this might not happen so soon, but the negative force is a force,
and not forcelessness. The quality of negative force: to shake your world. It’s principle: to
cleverly undo itself. It’s never direct, and it does not want to accomplish it’s goal. Also you
can see it in logical reasoning – philosophy is a negative force meant to evolve your
thoughts, through doubt; deduction is such logical reasoning, which brings the negative
force to improve you – proofs by contradiction. You see in philosophy and logic you
actually use negative force, you use the power of saying no. You bring it to your mind.
Negative force has it’s beginning: you don’t start feel emptiness before you are ready,
because you would not reach any positive quality. It also has it’s limits: if you feel too
empty, you might kill yourself and that’s it, you want to feel moderately empty so that you
can see the solution. Negative force does not only bring negativity to your thoughts, but into
your life – you have to experience it; as it gets more evolved, it becomes more theoretical,
but young negative force tends to be very physical. The principial quality behind negative
force is experience, and it always brings one up; this is also the quality of matter – matter,
it’s not eternal like truth, but it’s mostly a negative force meant to make you experienced. As
you go through one layer of negative force, it finds the next – even your ideal world would
one day start to feel empty, so that you need another revolution. The negative is associated
with god Shiva and the yin element. Negative force, finally gets a quality by making you
tough – you do not feel the negativity in negativity any more, you feel strength and it fills
you with some kind of adventurous feelings instead of making you broken. Practicing it too
strongly or too soon would make you broke, and if you make yourself broke – it can have

lasting and hard-to-overcome effects; so you need to also be concentrated on middle force –
balance – and always see, whether you can get your good mind back.
•

Cone: this is the stability and balance of being in here and now, you are happy with what
you have and you stay in now. As you use negative and positive forces, you cannot still
instantly get what they have to offer; you have to extremely clear that you achieve your
now-goals with your current abilities, in the limits of your current lazyness (this is a positive
force guiding you away from what takes your energy away); your work has to offer you
salary without making you unable to live your own life and goals, and you do not put your
success to the day, when you are really able for perfection – you seek some success from
your current ableness and motivation, and you connect the forces, which you have, with
positive outcomes and happyness. But the pain is not completely negative force – or, it is,
but you can see negativity is not forcelessness, but force, which acts by undoing itself; the
negative aspect needs to live. The balanced force is associated with god Vishnu and the
yinyang middle way; also it’s strongly emphasized in Buddhism – but you need a balance
between this and other forces, which said it contains the two other forces and thus does not
avoid them completely; yinyang has both yin and yang contained, but they are weak as
separate forces – you cannot base your life on fear or dreams, but you can have some
periods or moods for doing so, for going through them very deeply. In logic, it’s simply
using the theorems you have – you don’t do much additional induction and deduction, but
you form things from tautologies and theorems or statements you have established before.

•

Cosine: this is the Positive force. It’s seeing the negative even in positive, and seeing that in
future, similar condition might seem completely negative. It’s the energy of growth (stability
also brings some growth as you are never broken); it’s the energy of making your currentday success seem less worthy, to always have some humility. You cannot feel yourself too
much over all the people and all the positive things, you cannot feel that now you are done
and won’t do anything any more. The self-affirmations of worth and success, they can make
you dogmatic person, who is not able to learn and hates things, which are revolutionary – as
they always bring shadows to our current day success, and as world goes on our best
qualities of goodness and love start to look like evilness and hate to some others, who have
gone through revolution in such a degree that they arrive at the next inversion, where things
get polar again – but polar upwards, not downwards. You activities, which fight for success
of society, seem like false claims and false activities to others. So you always need to make
up a strong vision that there is more, and what seems as success today, might be failure of
future – if you live your perfect life like stone age people, they might have been considered
rich and able these days, but you rather look like you lack the material qualities. Indeed, the
stone age people saw the same qualities as highly positive, and you see them as negative. Or
if you protect yourself and your tribe with highest pagan virtues, like the ability to fight to
end with an axe, and let the other torture you without losing your honor, you might be seen
as a criminal or utterly evil person – but for ages ago, those were the highest virtues and
people stood very straight having them; they were righteous and upright by fighting for their
tribes, and even by robbing food from neighboring tribes when they didn’t have, to feed
their children. All such activities were considered traits of strong men, and women were
happy to have such. Today, such man with such high virtues would make a woman really
sad. You see that finally Christians came, and simply killed them for all those virtues, and
educated to next level, who they could educate. The principle of cosine: to undo the lack of

possibility, the lack of dimension. You see that those forces have the positive qualities, but
they do not have the dimension – the same way as negative force has the negative qualities,
but not the dimension (the one you are using). You also seek to achieve positive ends
without losing energy, and with positive effects to others as well – as they evolve, things get
smaller; where you needed a factory in the past, you now need a device at your home, and
maybe one day, only yourself with some clever wisdom or power. Which now is an effort
for the whole society, with garbage, toxic leftovers and hard work, in the future would be
natural ability for a person – as things evolve, they won’t grow, but they get smaller; which
grows is the positive effect. Cosine is about god Brahma. In Logic, this is principle of
implication – unlike in deduction, you follow truth further, you assume that by continuing
the true principles, you achieve even more true principles.
I use the letters Z, X and Y for Sine, Cone and Cosine – X is what is now, Z is what was before, and
Y is what is in the future. I use the letter Z when you are evolving, but this has no actual effects yet;
and Y for the state of absolute perfection, the end state of the theorem – but also the time, when you
have made the effects last, which you have.
Witchcraft, now, is concentrated on the good ends – miracles would happen to balanced person,
who also experiences the negative aspects and the possibility for more evolved outcomes; who is
definitely going for what is positive, and can be achieved – creating their currently-known ideal
personality, like a perfect businessman with lots of self-worth, is using witchcraft, doubts and
dreams must be there, and they create you a more flexible character, which is not going directly to
get their best, and without considering that others could be more evolved in something. You can see
that modern witchcraft is materialist – but for a devil, it’s typical to be materialist; it’s still “mind
over matter”, magic, as humans themselves are magical creatures and one way or another, they do
something with their minds. To understand this, you can see that you can explain self-affirmations
and autosuggestions, also creating images in advertising, perfectly with theory of magic – it’s the
magic mostly concerned about the physical process; but the physical aspects, like having mind over
matter through activities, are still part of the nature, they are the same process, a yin aspect of it. As
witchcraft is overly yin, also this element is yin that it thinks it creates it’s effects solely by material
manipulation, and not by lack of higher vision directly affecting the nature. It would also be
witchcraft if it’s concentrated in bad, but you barely find such a person, and probably you would not
be reading this text – so the case of directly seeking all the good ends is rather the case to avoid;
you need to open yourself up to the whole range of possibilities in the Nature, and know, that
somewhere in the end there are hard logical truths you can not avoid by positivity – even in the
magic.

Levels of Material Magic
Yin: This is the level of doing it materially. The qualities of your mind are conditioning your
physical activities, and this yin aspect is really important to be there. For example, a telepathic
person is still multiplying their telepathic abilities if they are also communicative in the material
world, paying attention to signals they send and receive, and talking, and singing or dancing –
matter is extremely vivid and direct quality of the reality, and combining your magic with material
work is worth the effort. You can see that in your material activity the mind plays the same role, it’s
nature does not change – as you open your chakras, make your mind more creative and your senses

sharper and deeper; all those qualities interact with your results the same ways as they do with
direct mind-over-matter.
Yinyang: The element of controlling yourself through magic. You do many things without thinking,
and you constantly react in ways controlled by subconscious mind; you don’t notice, how you move
or you won’t control your tone of voice, but you somehow achieve your results or do your mistakes.
This is most often used by magic – you can use deeper force over yourself to synchronize your
activity; or, here, also, sometimes, the subconsious mind has direct effects upon the nature.
Yang: your mind, directly, and without your activities, has effects upon the nature. Not all people
believe in this, but you can also reason in other ways – often the ways of your mind and body could
be so subtle and complex that you cannot give them names and meanings; in all cases, you can see
how the qualities and settings of your mind affect your life in general, the most complex flows of it.
This is like opening all chakras, not just the third eye or crown; and not just the root – you need
them all to be a complete person, and lack of one chakra is hard even when the others are open. I
have learnt this by hard life experience; for example your spiritual connection with another person
might be very strong, but you are unable to bring this to material plane, and finally the spiritual
connection breaks as well – it needs some material support. Or, on the other way around, you might
work effortlessly and get things done, but you won’t get pleasure and success – you do not create
the big picture.

Laws of Material Magic
For this text, you need to know the following Laws:
•

Law of Karma: In reality, you are most affected by Karma. So, the material magic, as it’s
purpose and too, is about purifying the material Karma. If this is the force you use, you are
also not a witch – you are seeking miracles, and not the control or power. I think you avoid
the mistakes the Hermetics did in the Medieval Ages, namely they always hoped to finally
control it; your growth in the path of material must be natural, and without forcing it. This
law is a Buddhist basic law.

•

Law of Attention: You have to know that where you put your attention, you put your force.
Attention grows Wisdom and Awareness, also it’s Creative; it brings the matter or your
relation with it from dead, unconscious state into alive and conscious state, and if matter is,
for you, a conscious thing – this would be called material magic. This law is an important
principle in Buddhism.

•

Laws of Good Intent: As you grow your intent, you create kind of positive prayer; good
intent moves you in positive direction even if you don’t know, what to do – so to have basic,
primitive laws to get going, you rather need intent than some specific knowledge, as intent is
stable force of movement, whereas actual knowledge is something you cannot get so easily,
by seeking this you would get stuck like Alchemists of Medieval Times – you might not get
too much, but you can know that you are on the way. Right Intent is part of Buddhist
Eightfold path.

Now, these laws – there are completely enough of them to make sure you are moving, and having
many more laws would make it very complicated; even with these laws, to understand their true
meaning in this context, it takes time. Also, in terms of Buddhism, this is an axiomatic system and

you can study further about each of those laws. In Eightfold path, you also would need to
communicate properly your material considerations, etc., you can see how each of them holds – but
what you need initially, is to grow your intent, so that it starts to have effects in your system. Also,
with this information and those laws, you can start doing it quite immediately, knowing that you do
nothing wrong – in case you won’t reach actual magic, you reach many positive effects; and it’s not
wise to make your bets completely in direction of gaining something nearly impossible – it’s wise to
have a balanced practice, which take you further, and it’s wise to know that in the end of the way
you get it all (that your ways itself won’t end in the middle). This is the three truth values – sine,
cone and cosine – as I see them; be ready for different things, but make sure your way itself leads
somewhere, even if you get tired on the way and don’t reach that end. The way should be beautiful,
and so the final, possible destination. I hope that in my work, I cover all these values so that you can
see what it brings now, and what it would bring in the end, in case you ever reach there. Also, for
Buddhist, it’s natural to think that then, at least, you are prepared to reach further in your next life.
So I would say mine is a balanced practice, and you can start measuring some positive effects quite
soon.

Five Elements of Matter
In Buddhism, there are Five Elements of Matter. They have five frequencies or ranges of
frequencies, and thus they are connected to Chakras of those frequencies.
Three Substantial Elements:
•

Yin: The Earth is connected to substance, and this is the principle of matter being formed of
smaller particles or fields, so that which is really material, unites with forms and leaves
them – such as energy, a material form, is entering an leaving our bodies, or electrons
constantly connect to different forms or objects. This is the manyness quality of matter,
namely that even for one body or object, it consists of many. You are one person, but made
by a lots of particles and fields and energy units – matter is always many. In this sense it’s
negative, it’s smaller than one.

•

Yinyang: The Fire is connected to objects or forms. It’s connected to the property of matter
that it forms objects, and stories related to those specific objects.

•

Yang: The Space, Ether or Cosmos is the unity of matter. It’s the element of matter, which
gives it a dreamlike quality, or stories – when the Space element is open in our system (I use
this word to connect with chakras), it becomes into one, unified dreamlike flow of
substances.

Two Energetic elements:
•

Water: It makes us flow, gives us the roundedness instead of corners. It is movement
connected with irrational, ying, particle principle of matter.

•

Air: It makes us have direction, and it’s movement connected with a higher principle,
wholes, stories or dreams.

You need to sense all those principles in matter:
•

Earth connecting you to the coming and going, birth and death, the matter constantly
flowing through bodies and not really being them.

•

Water connecting earth with flow, yourself reacting to this irrational principle, constantly
realigning.

•

Fire creating a toy world, or connecting you with the stories of objects.

•

Air creating the flow towards bigger goals and ambitions.

•

Space uniting and separating, creating distinct worlds inside one world, connecting stories
into flow and making the matter move in meaningful manner.

You are Matter
You have a material aspect of your being. This gives you the following abilities:
•

You can feel matter from inside and have a certain empathy with it.

•

You can see that your mind, also, has material properties – partially it’s like mind, you set
goals and have theories etc., but partially it’s reacting like matter, from one state to another
through irrational rules, which are hard to control.

With these and other aspects of being matter yourself, you can connect to what matter really is, and
see all the elements or frequencies in yourself. As matter inside you is just the same as matter
outside – the same components, structures and laws – you can see that the matter outside must have
some sensations, which are less structured than yours, but still there. You can also imagine that like
you make up an object of this matter, one complete person – Universe itself must be a whole, it
must have some sensations bigger than yours, which it feels as a complete whole. By this you prove
God, or at least some complete, harmonic Universal Mind.

Empathy with Matter
To flow in union with matter, you must grow empathy with it.
There is a principle I call principle of imperfection – namely, and as you can see looking at yourself,
that it has goals, dreams etc., but it does not always reach them; it has experiences. If you extend
this principle to matter, you can see it has to have positive and negative emotions or success and
failure – the Laws of Materials, really, are not like Physics, that they always achieve their ends, but
by principle of incompleteness, they also struggle, and they have some conditions over others. They
exercise forces, and some forces push the other forces away, or help the other forces – it’s not
always True, the movement of matter, and it’s not the whole sum of reaction, like in Physics; but, by
principle of incompleteness, matter has higher and lower states, and it has goals it’s not able to
fulfill, it also has breakthroughs.
By principle of incompleteness, you can see that matter has Karmic Laws, and so do you with your
interactions with matter. This is the basis of material magic – you clean this Karma.

Understanding and Karma
In the spiritual magic, becoming unified with mental world and spiritual flows of events, I
discovered one truth – once I removed my wrong intentions and wrong attitude towards the magical
process, and started to have spiritual values, I removed the Karmic Block of Understanding.
Removal of this block opened me up to inspiration and knowledge – once I started to have the right

intention towards how to use the psychic powers, they started to open up themselves, coming from
nowhere. The most important things was not to try to impress people, but to try to do something
substantial and good with my powers – this value was teaching itself in many ways, but once I
understood this, I got the inspiration and the Wisdom started to flow into me.
Thus, for understanding the Material Alchemy, you definitely need to remove the Karmic block on
your way – what you expect, once you have cleaned up your karma and maybe given some vows
(as Christ said, vows must also be open to change, to even deeper understanding); once you have
done that – the Wisdom starts to flow into you. So, you are most interested in how to remove these
karmic blocks.

Some workings of Karma
First, the Karma works by higher and lower states being either True or False. Which is True, is also
Real and Possible; which is False, is Illusory (like Maya) and Impossible. By Law of Imperfection,
the reality is flowing towards more and more True states from False states.
People, Life in General, are True. This can be seen by Evolution moving towards such target –
Evolution is Optimization towards more True values; when value is True – it Remains; and when
it’s False – it’s impossible and thus it will change. The Criteria of Possible is always raising.
Principles of Evolution, as it only follows the Truth values already there, is equal to which values
are Naturally True.
In case you do harm, the value involving you and your activity will imply false. So when you do
harm, you can see you set your own value to False – you create blocks, and if those False values are
implied inevitably from your actions, your actions, in return, are inevitably false and you get this
logical impossibility to harm you, to render your actions unachievable. When A => not B, but B is
true, then it follows that not A. This is the karmic pressure.
In addition to evolution, I believed oracles do logic very directly – in case it’s impossible in future,
it renders it impossible now as well.
In circles of Karma, the goods you get from things are shared back to their doers, principles of those
doers and the deeper, underlying principles, until you reach Truth itself. Such positive energy circles
keep things alive.
The laws of Karma you can then meet in the principle of Evolution – this is not dead or random
principle, but very alive, and it definitely feels good to be Evolution; it inevitably optimizes towards
Truth and it closes those working energy cycles, and breaks the negative cycles. In Evolution, good
always wins in the end – however long it takes, but a good species remain. It’s also evolution of our
thoughts and events – where your bad thoughts die, you see you sense this as thinking, you try
numerous combinations and some of those are removed by their implications; so, if God is the
Whole, you can see He must Think when there is an Evolution. This way, the Evolution theories as
they are taken by scientists, might give Universe some random qualities – such Theories of
Evolution are False. You can see, mathematically, process like evolution implies Truth, it inevitably
optimizes towards Truer values, so it’s one of the processes of Creation and Truth – it’s like a big
thinking machine; and Artificial Intelligence of today has very similar optimization process – you
see it as mathematical and stable process following Truth. It does not disobey God to have
Evolution – Evolution is stable mathematical Truth holding for more or less any possible dynamic

system, and you can see that as a Theorem, such truth implies God, or some Greater Theorem
behind reality aligning it with Truth, both in creating the Species and aligning their Ethics closer to
Principle of Karma – which is a True principle, and thus to be there.
But I also believe that Truth in the Future is strong force and in case you directly imply
impossibility into future, the karma hits back and your activity becomes impossible now. This way,
future also guides the evolution.
Evolution, also, is made of Love – a strong, unifying principle. Love, in living bodies and in
Universe, is one of the strongest forces moving you around, and it creates the creative element in
principle of Evolution itself – also, we would guess that even higher Love controls the birth and
death of races, and even bigger genetical or non-genetical wholes; Love is the principle of Creation
– it chooses, quite freely, which evolutionary combinations to create, and blesses the Evolution with
one of the strongest principles of Life. So the Psychology of Creation is extremely strong, and God
is said to unify couples – the Cosmic Whole is thus said to create. So do not underestimate the
Evolution – the theory of “Blind Evolution” is false, but the theory of Evolution as good-destined
optimization process, completely aligned with Laws of Karma (in terms that it keeps together the
good energy circles) – this is the True evolution theory and probably more like what Darwin had in
Mind, even if you see many scientists who have axiomatic system of evolution against some basic
Spiritual principles, which means they have False Science Theories; and it’s natural that believers
do not need to know, what exactly is false – they can disprove the theory by the fact that, indeed,
such theories are disproven by Spiritual Principles as those principles are not implied. If you think
deeper about Evolution, you can imply Spiritual Principles, and as Evolution simply optimizes for
higher Truth found elsewhere – this is, it does not use it’s own survival principle, but the ones
already there in your Life; you can see that it’s an integral part of the Truth, and thus proven by
Science.
Blocks of Karma, they are general blocks and when you have bad karma in one area, you also have
it in another. But the direct blocks of Karma affect your outcomes in specific areas, for example, if
your material karma is bad, you might get together your spiritual ends – but you cannot get together
your material ends, such activities are blocked. So, to have material magic in effect, and to create
strong material basis for your spiritual efforts, you have to have strong material karma.

Concentrating directly on Matter
As matter flows through forms – on social level, companies and officials, they create structure
equivalent to higher-order matter or material forms; people flow in and out, but the companies and
governmental structures flow with routine and stability, aspects of yin or matter.
Any act of Attention is a little bit of Magic – so, people not practicing Magic, are still doing one
great Meditation of having their Attention moving around in the world; where they pay attention,
they do positive magic. In case they avoid paying attention to something – you don’t need to believe
in Spirituality to see that those things become dead; when a lots of Attention is moved towards
something, say, through mass media, it’s probably very alive – many neurons process this thing, and
they get some results. A materialist does not think about people, but they think on objects – this way
of attention makes them independent, because this does not depend on people, whether they get
their money. You can see they are doing something right.

When you do your material meditation, concentrate your mind directly on material process – not
people, emotions and social processes involved to create this material process. You need to get
material awareness, a separate mind concerned solely about matter – and this is what I call the
Material Magic.
Indeed, you need to also integrate this with social processes etc., but you need to make sure you
have a Material Mind – people flow in and out, but the forms, they remain. Matter flows in and out,
but the objects, they remain. Material Magic is about having senses towards this realm, which is not
the people, but the material form itself – yin is about Forms, not the Content, and so is the
meditation. In case you create too many connections with people, their intents, how you get along
and how worthy you are or what you do to deserve – you create many dependencies, so you are not
materially independent; in case you meditate directly upon matter and your sensations about it, you
make your material life independent and reliable, it does not end up by some broken relation; you
also have a separate sense to see whether the events you create are materially possible, whether the
people come into your life in materially realistic ways. You need a distinct plane of reality, which is
the material magic – and, as it gets strong, meditative attention, instead of typical human attention
(but humans are said to be over animals in sense that they have some attention; animals have rather
direct reaction), it’s rather magic than everyday life, rather sacred than mundane.

Principles of Material Magic Applied
Ecosystem
•

Karma: You have a Karmic Block if you do not align with the Ecosystem. People aligning
with ecosystem better, they get also better local effects for global problems.

•

Spirituality: Spiritual people did not need the science to avoid things, which cause troubles
to ecosystem. You do not need to measure your carbon dioxide in case you simply dislike
torturing animals, destroying nature etc., which are things naturally ugly for a human being;
you only need to get stronger access to this feeling. In balance, you need to find out, how to
build up material dream without destroying it – for example, how to make technology
ecological. Computers, for example, do not necessarily contain parts, which are not aligned
with ecological life – it’s supposed only to compute and calculate, and creating toxic waste
is not necessarily part of calculations; you can see that it does not naturally imply toxic
waste if you calculate, nor does it so for the machine. Movement, from one place to another,
also does not necessarily imply toxic waste. You can see that your dream itself does not
create toxic waste. By laws of Karma, you can be sure that you get less toxic waste into your
life with better Natural Karma, than the people, who do it themselves – your Natural Blocks
are weaker.

•

Attention: You need to pay attention to your natural instinctive emotional patterns in this
area; you need to have meditative attention directly on the dark spots of emotion you get
when you think about human activities in the nature; and on the light, which sometimes
shines through and shows you the better, possible nature. You need to tune into that aspect of
Karma.

•

Intent: Over all, you need to build strong, positive intent towards Ecosystem, not
considering individual activities. You don’t want to measure every single thing, but you
want a strong, general intention, which works on it’s own.

Here, what you need to do – you have a direct, first-hand experience about human activity in
Nature, it’s dark and light side; you need to connect to this source instead of what you read from
news. You need to develop direct emotions towards those activities; and you can see destroying a
rain forest is a bad thing in itself, visible directly to human; not only the scientific findout about
how destroying a rain forest would have some negative economic, social or global effect you can
measure – you can see that thought itself is bad, even if you don’t know anything about it’s
measured outcomes.

Materials
•

Karma: you need to connect to which material structures are good and which are bad, or
how you feel about them.

•

Attention: you get some feeling about every material around you. This meditation you do
rather walking, not being alone and relaxed, so it takes more effort and experience. You need
to always pay attention, what you feel about different materials and structures; not just their
purpose as an object, or what meaning humans give them – but the direct, material feeling
you get towards them.

•

Intent: you turn your intent to raise the material structures in your reality, to create higher
material structures.

Your Body
•

Karma: in addition to be biologically sick, your body might have a lower material structure
or alignment. This creates a material block – the sickness is not on cellular level, but on
material level, the material structure of your body is bad and thus, the matter wants to
release itself from this form.

•

Attention: you need to sense the material structure of your body and direct material forces it
creates towards this structure. You need to teach your cells to work with matter – material
base atoms are for them just like cells themselves are for you, and for them, meditating on
material structures is as easy as for you is to meditate on cells (I have learnt, through
meditation, to sense all my body – but now I learn to sense it on material level).

•

Intent: the material structure of your cells, and the clothes and jewerly, you need to create a
consistent whole, which wants to keep itself together on material level; you need to create
material force in your body.

Reaction with Materials
•

Karma: in case you react with surrounding materials in bad way, your activities and
conditions might be blocked, the higher material conditions do not want you, you being
there implies False on those structures. You need to make your reaction to support the
material structures surrounding you, to grow higher (that matter can grow higher comes
from the principle of imperfection).

•

Attention: thus, you pay attention to the space around you, and you meditate on how you
react with this space. Beauty is shared between human and the mattern – as mattern
structures more highly, we see it as beauty. We need to create beauty around ourselves.

•

Intent: you create an intent to be a teacher, a raiser of material structures around you.

Your senses
•

Karma: if your senses do not work properly, you see matter as more dead with your eyes,
you hear it as more dead etc. Sound, vision and other sensations do not feel alive – thus,
your senses are not doing their work. You see art as having emotion, you hear music as
having life – this is, if your senses work. If they don’t work, you can see that matter loses all
it’s qualities you experienced when you was a child – but you could experience them
forever.

•

Attention: seek for the more direct sensations, more physical ones. Your senses create you a
picture, but you don’t see how – as you pay attention, you can see that you can become
aware of your senses, of the information they directly get, also of the process. There, you see
that what they perceive, is associated with material sensations – you pay attention to this.
You become aware of your material sensations, and you work hard to get those direct
feelings stronger; they also share the positive and negative qualities of the matter being felt.
Once you do this, the art starts to appear like a miracle to you, everything you sense, it
acquires deeper, more profound qualities, even common things in your life are pleasure to
sense and experience, you get excited about the matter again.

•

Intent: your intent starts to grow as your senses more strongly feel the positive and negative
sensations, which on this material level are really hard to feel.

http://spireason.neocities.org/

